# Unitree Go1 ROS Navigation. 

## What is it?

This repository contains files for enabling the Unitree Go1 quadruped robot to perform SLAM and autonomous navigation tasks (currently in ongoing development) with ROS.

The navigation stack of a robot involves processing information from odometry and sensor streams (such as lidar) and generating velocity commands to be sent to a mobile base.

For further information, refer to the documentation available at: [ROS Navigation Stack](http://wiki.ros.org/navigation/Tutorials/RobotSetup)

## What does this container do?

This container executes SLAM algorithms in ROS, enabling the robot to generate 2D maps of indoor environments.

## Run it?

### Dependencies:

The Unitree Go1 ROS Navigation depends on:
  - ros-master (tutorial [here](../ros-master/))
  - go1-base (tutorial [here](../go1-base/))
  - lidar-drivers (tutorial [here](../lidar-drivers/))

### First you will need to build the container. 

In order to do that, run the following script:
```bash
./build.sh
```

### This will build the `go1-navigation` docker image. 

Verify that the image is present by running:
```bash
docker image ls
```

### Docker run example
In this folder we also provide a docker run example. 

To run the Unitree Go1 ROS Navigation:
```bash
./run_example.sh
```

Verify that the container is up and running:
```bash
docker ps
```

In the output you should be able to see the `go1-navigation` container up and running.

The map generated by the navigation system is published on the `/map` ros topic, which can be visualized using the [RViz VNC container](../rviz-vnc/)

### Configuration Options

You can adjust the SLAM algorithm used  for creating 2D maps by setting the `SLAM_ALGORITHM` environment variable. Options include `cartographer` (default), `hector`, or `gmapping`.

### Reference Documentation

- [Cartographer SLAM](https://google-cartographer-ros.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
- [Hector SLAM](https://wiki.ros.org/hector_slam)
- [Gmapping SLAM](https://wiki.ros.org/gmapping)







